oop baby what's going on everybody good
morning good afternoon good evening hope
you all are doing
well
what's going on everybody welcome back
welcome back we got a
got a good class tonight we got a good
class tonight tonight we got the oop
we're going to talk about it we're going
to spend some time making the basics
make
sense it's such a hard it's such a
confusing it's such a weird
topic when you're first starting out but
i promise you
i promise you we're going to break it
down in a way that makes sense with real
examples no stuffy definitions that take
you a year to figure out we're gonna
make it make sense
welcome in everybody as always like to
give folks a few seconds to get in here
hope you're doing well it feels good to
be back tuesday was a good class and
good to get that review in get some
spicy challenges in good to see you all
tonight is ideally a
a shorter class
we're gonna cover
two of the four pillars of oop
and then we're gonna do some working
together time
miriam hey what's going on we'll do some
working together time so that's the goal
the goal is to get through some of these
like meaty topics walk away
understanding why these things are
important
and then maybe get a little bit of time
in to work together on a project
oh thank you everybody's already in here
we already got a lot of wild stuff
happening
hello rufio with the raid 86 folks let's
go
thanks for hanging out with hello's
rufio we we we got some some some some
some some lovely stream team members now
folks and we got another one to announce
very very soon uh so super excited next
week we're announcing another stream
team member but uh
it's it's it's popping off folks i can't
tell you how amazing it is to see the
community
go to all the different stream team
folks right to be able to go from
learning about javascript to working
together to pushing the doing all these
different things and to have all these
different times that we're live and and
coming together community is really
really like that's the end goal folks
right that's the end goal i love it and
to see so many of you showing up for the
stream team
uh streams is it's just next level
i people grind for
years
to hit 86 people
grind for years to hit 86.
and the fact that we have that many
folks going to stream team this quick i
love it love to see it
rufio's crushing it mine was crushing it
and we got another person coming through
soon super excited
alrighty folks you know how we like to
do
today
we're gonna walk through
uh a little bit of objects review just a
little bit of review nothing too while
just a little bit of review
and then we're gonna talk about some oop
principles and then we're gonna
hopefully work in teams to build a
tic-tac-toe app
all right
always start off with some questions you
got questions i hopefully have
some answers
i just look smaller there we go
the question of the day is what was your
favorite what is your favorite ice cream
flavor
what is your favorite
ice cream flavor
a lot of vanilla chocolate fans
interesting
cereal milk
mint chip
i think i'm a i'm a chocolate chip
cookie dough type person
but uh i i've been tempted with the the
mint chip back in my days so it's a
toss-up
between cookie dough and mint chip those
those are two competing flavors
we got some chunky monkey
some coffee
what strawberry
a lot of cookie dough a lot of mint a
lot of mint lovers
dorian ice cream that'd be wild
okay i see awesome banana throwing in
there
rum raisin
cookies and cream oh it's a classic
if i believe the ice cream that's wild
okay
i like seeing some of these like ice
cream flavors i didn't even know they
made ice cream like that that's pretty
dope
cool
[Laughter]
all right thank you i love seeing that
that's awesome
so always talk about some questions
if you got some questions i got some
answers i always just like to give folks
a few seconds to get in here before we
get started
yeah some people do say that the mint
tastes like toothpaste i i don't i feel
bad for those folks just like the
cilantro folks
um
we need to have our 100 devs project
thought out code word solutions on
github
and professional checklist submit it so
you should have kind of put in
a lot of work on the professional
checklist i won't really ask for it
until next week so next week i'm going
to ask for you to submit all that stuff
um you should be pushing your code wars
every day
so you should be doing your code wars
saving it to a javascript file on your
desktop and then pushing that to github
just the every day
you get the the beautiful beautiful
green square that our recruiters are
looking for right and so
the idea is that you will
be able to
every single day have a green square
because you're doing a code wars every
day and pushing it now i'll eventually
ask to see that repo but it's more for
you to start building up that that
use of git and github making it a daily
practice and then also getting those
green squares
when is client due that is due
may 5th may 5th
remember it doesn't have to be done we
just need the contract or whatever you
uh signed
and if you're having trouble with
getting github don't worry i know we
just had the one class
come on sunday for office hours and
during office hours we're going to put
in work
to get done more get in github we're
going to do lots of practice i'm gonna
do uh i'll like show you how i get my
code wars live on github i'll walk
through all the steps we'll ask tons of
questions we'll get through it so don't
worry if you're having trouble with the
getting github come back on sunday for
our office hours and we're gonna push
through it and make sure it all makes a
little bit more sense
first time working in groups any
recommendations oh it's great when we
get to the end i'll share some some tips
i think for working in groups uh in the
beginning i really think if you haven't
like read our discord rules
and like i know a lot of people just
click it and they join go back and read
those rules there are some really good
tips on like how to be
a good teammate like fused into those
rules
and i i i always like the see the best
in each other and give folks the benefit
of the doubt right like try and see the
best as you're working with individuals
make sure you're communicating and and
listening and make sure that you're just
trying to to
to understand that we're all here to
learn
and for some of us we have to learn how
to work with others well and that's part
of it that's part of doing a boot camp
journey as part of working in teams is
because engineers rarely work by
themselves they're often on teams and so
getting better at working in a team and
having your first mistakes working in a
team happen here and not on the job is
part of it
but always be kind as always here in
twitch chat on discord if it's not the
kindest thing you can say then don't say
it right i think that that translates
really well into working with groups so
give people the benefit of doubt be kind
and if you can keep those two things in
mind you can work well with others in
groups but
that's what we practice it there's a
reason why we we we do like group work
and then more serious group work and
then by the end
large portions of what you'll be
responsible for at 100 devs is group
work and these groups become really
important
the groups that you work with later in
program and like say like 10 to
like 10 plus weeks from now those groups
become really important because they
will be one of the basis for your
references when you need a peer
reference or someone that can speak to
the quality of the code that you've
written well guess what you can share
the folks you've worked with in those
groups and so working right
working through how to work better in
teams getting to know folks
you are going to work on those things
and something we'll get better at over
time but in the end it's gonna be a
really important thing to be able to
like look back and be like oh here's
somebody that knows what i've worked on
has helped me with code and boom
is this webcam or voice only it's up to
you we're gonna use remo which can be
webcam and
and mike
but for some folks remote they could
just never really get it to work it's
kind of buggy we always have our discord
voice channels which you can use as well
but we don't worry about that for right
now we got a whole lecture
one of my favorite things to cover uh
before we get even close to working in
teams
yeah
yeah this will be after stream
cool
text is an option yes it can be
alrighty
let's go ahead and start pushing through
if you haven't checked in please go
ahead and check in
exclamation point
check in
gives us a
link to a tweet go ahead and like and
retweet that tweet please and um it it
just helps us to to spread the good word
folks can find us not to pay so much
money for a boot camp and then also it's
attendance so as we get closer to the
end as we get closer to the hunt and we
get into the the meat of the of the
support that you're going to need we
check attendance so make sure you've
checked in
so that way we know that you were here
cool
all right
this topic above all topics can be
something that really
um
really kind of get you in your feels a
little bit that can get you into the
trough of star a little bit and so my
promise as we go through uh these very
important topics is that i'm always
going to explain
the why i feel like i've gone through a
lot of books
a lot of materials
a lot of
things where i got to the end and i'm
like great i kind of understand it
i kind of know what's going on but i
don't know
why
and it was always one of my major
frustrations when i was learning how to
code or whenever i'm learning something
new
is yes i can see it you've given me good
examples we've played with it we've
built with it but why
why like what was
the reason
i needed to learn this or know this and
when it comes to encapsulation
abstraction inheritance polymorphism
we got to understand the why just as
much as the how and what and the build
with it and so
yes these topics can be difficult this
will not will not only be our only time
seeing these topics we're going to get
the repetition and we're going to get
different examples i'm going to show you
from different places different
viewpoints how to get through this
important very important topics that in
my opinion
there's really just no good material
that gives you
how the what but more importantly the
why like why will my life as an engineer
change when i use these things and so
that's what we're going to get to
tonight folks
all right remember no networking until
may
but uh
may is coming up soon folks
may is coming up soon
i'm still live i think
i think my computer just crashed
hold on
so i am live
but i think my laptop just
died for some reason
i don't know why
yep all right that died
[Laughter]
i don't know why that that zonked out
all right
we're gonna go to
uh
i'm gonna go to main shot real quick
[Laughter]
all right
i think we are all set i don't know what
happened honestly
but that's all right
you got got we got got exactly
now you just see how long it takes me to
get everything set up before i go live
all right we're back folks
i had to put the hair up i was like come
on now i gotta i gotta do this quick
all right here we go we're back
all right so no networking until may
client deadline is march 5th
all right march 5th client alternatives
remember if you can't get a paid client
for some reason you can volunteer for a
grassroots organization and you can
contribute to free and open source
software good place to start is first
timers only oh should i say did i say
march in there it's may may 5th not
march 5th may 5th
may 5th not march
uh grassroots volunteer and free and
open source software are all viable
all right
thank you for bearing with me it looks
like everything's good we're back online
remember tomorrow friday
we are doing a live crafting your story
uh and so that'll be live on
discord discord at 6 30 p.m
right 6 30 p.m i will be live on discord
we do the group projects we're catching
up yes
so we're live tomorrow on discord uh
we're going to bring up i have no idea
whoever wants to come up is going to
come up and i'm going to craft their
story live they're going to tell me
about their background and we're going
to figure out how to build that
background into a good story that we can
sell to recruiters hiring partners
hiring partners engineering managers etc
will it be recorded no
this first one won't be recorded i will
do more of them in the future but this
first one won't be
yeah
there's there's a few perks to be in
live folks i know it's tough there's a
few perks to being live but we're going
to do it again we'll do other ones this
first one won't
all right
office hours this sunday we're back with
our full office hours so this sunday's
gonna be like a full at least three
hours we're going through git we're
going through github we're going through
um
we're going through some of the stuff
that we'll cover tonight anything we
need to review we'll still always answer
questions like we normally do on slido
so office hour sunday so
friday 6 30 p.m tomorrow for crafting
your story and then office hours on
sundays
cool
chat what are objects
what are objects
everything
make sure my slides are working sorry
all right looks like we're good
cool what are objects everything exactly
they're collections of variables and
functions right they're collections of
variables and functions now
these variables and functions we call
them properties and methods and they
combine and we've been using them
right we've been using them
but do we fully understand why we've
been using them
right we could just use functions we
could just use variables why did we have
to use them
and so this is a method of learning
that i implement in my own life
but it's something i also implement in
my teaching and it's also something that
i think is a really good practice for
y'all
so right now
i see learning is kind of like three
phases right using understanding and
then building once you have those two
combined and so at first we're kind of
just like using these pieces we're using
objects we're creating properties we're
creating methods we're using
constructors we're doing these things
that we kind of really
we unders
we understand like the use of them
right
but then understanding why we use them
is another level
and one of the things that i
find that a lot of folks get tripped up
on especially at this phase of learning
is they try to understand
they read eloquent javascript and
they'll just bang their head against the
keyboard
because they're trying to understand
every little bit
when if they had just started to play
with it before trying to understand
copying the code trying to break the
code moving the code around a little bit
right that would help them unlock the
understanding bit
and then once the understanding bit
starts to come into focus doesn't have
to be all the way there some folks
really put pressure on themselves to
fully understand everything before they
start building and that's also something
that can slow you down significantly so
use it play with it break it
then try to understand the bits that
you're playing with and then try and
build something with those bits and so
you're going to see this pattern happen
over and over again here at 100 devs i'm
going to introduce stuff to you
we're going to use it we're going to
understand the syntax we're going to
play with it but we might not understand
why
and then we cover the understanding
then we build with it so tonight we've
been using objects we're going to get
our repetition on the object that we've
been using
then we're going to add this layer of
understanding like what do objects bring
to the table what is this oop thing what
does that bring to the table that's
going to help my day-to-day life as an
engineer
and then
how can i use these things these best
practices these paradigms to build stuff
that's real that can go into production
that i would feel comfortable showing my
future teammates that will be something
that will be stuck in my portfolio
something that will
be what i am proud to show off during
interviews
right so use understand
build i think this is something that can
help alleviate a lot of the anxiety and
stress that comes along with learning to
code and give yourself that grace that
freedom to just use and play with stuff
before you understand it and then once
you've been using and playing it then
try and understand a little bit but
don't have to go full bore right you
don't have to go all the way complete
understanding try building with it and
then that building will unlock the last
bit of understanding
right and so that's something we're
going to see over and over and over
again i kind of like to be on the on the
nose with it when we're talking about
such meaty topics tonight but we're
going to use we're going to understand
and then we're going to build
all right
now tonight
we're gonna make some nerds
some nerds real angry
they can't help themselves
the code weenies always come out in full
force on this class and any of the oop
classes
here's something that i i need you to
know
your theory doesn't make sense
like yes you know the in and outs of
computer science theory
but when you try to explain that theory
to someone that's just learned the
basics of objects it makes no sense
in your attempt to educate on theory you
have lost sight of actual understanding
actual applicability to the code that
folks are writing
and i have to tell you i've read the
books yes i've read the books i've read
the media ones this is my thursday copy
you don't want to see my wednesday or
tuesday copy this is my thursday copy
i've read the silly books i've gotten
through them this is my thursday copy
you don't want to see my friday or
saturday copy right i've read the books
i've learned the theory
it has no place
in the first class
it has no place in the first class i
want you to walk away
understanding why encapsulation is
important why abstraction is important
what it's going to bring to the table
what it's going to help you with i don't
care about the
well actually encapsulation in this part
theory is probably no go [__] yourself
right
we're here to learn
we're here to
understand
we can save those dusty three-page
explanations for two to three weeks from
now we don't need those
right now
right
save that and i know i know for some of
you that are here the code winnie's that
are here i understand that this is going
to be very difficult for you so what i
have done
is on any page that includes a
definition
that attempts to explain
and lead someone to understanding
instead of giving the textbook
definition i've put a little a little
asterisk for you so when you see that
asterisk come up you can take your
headphones out right you can close your
eyes and you can come back next week
right that way we're we're not going to
to make you shake
angrily right so when you see the little
astra come up that's your cue close your
eyes take your headphones out and you're
good
right
all right
now
i think it's really important to spend
time on the conversation we can get to
the academic definitions later on
cool
the other thing too is that i'm throwing
around a lot of big words
i'm throwing around encapsulation
abstraction inheritance polymorphism
when i first heard these words
they're big words i didn't understand
them so i treated them as disrespect
and so when we're looking at these
definitions
and you're throwing around these big
words that i understand you gotta
understand it makes me feel a certain
type of way and i'm gonna treat it as
disrespect so
we're gonna try and get rid of these big
words
we're gonna try and and talk about these
things in a language that actually makes
sense to the humans that just learned
javascript and we're gonna save the big
words and the disrespect for a few weeks
from now
all right
we both wrapped the same smart tech if
you know you know
now you're both going to get clapped up
all right
chat we talked about objects being a
collection of variables and functions
we are going to
just do a little bit of review
and then we're going to jump into how we
can start using these objects and start
talking about those pillars of
object-oriented programming cool so
we've let the we've put the the nerds on
on standby uh we we we know that we're
gonna take some creative liberties
tonight and uh if you need to take some
time that's okay all right so we talked
about objects the collection of
variables
and functions
uh they represent the attributes and
behavior of something in our program we
call these variables properties when
they're tied to an object and we call
these functions methods when they are
tied to an object
we like to think of like a physical
object when we're trying to think
through this to tie it to something a
little bit more real i like to think of
a stopwatch a stopwatch has properties
like color shape
size even things like the minute and
seconds but it also has
methods that are tied to it behavior
start stop split reset these things that
we've been building up over the last few
classes
we see here that we're creating a
stopwatch using what type of notation
here
what type of notation we're using to
create an object here
yeah we're using literal notation here
we're adding properties and methods here
using what notation
dot notation what are some other ways
that we could create objects though if
we didn't want to use literal notation
we didn't want to use this dot notation
what if we wanted to make a lot of
objects what could we do
we could build constructors exactly and
then if we wanted to put a little bit of
syntactical sugar on top of our
constructors what could we use
yeah we could use our classes exactly so
we talked about the ability to create
lots of objects just like a factory can
create lots of objects well we have our
constructors which can help us spit out
a lot of objects
and we had this original syntax and then
with the newer versions of javascript we
put some syntactical sugar on them and
we got our classes
so
what i would love for us to do
is to very quickly
uh work through
building out a class just to get this
stuff in our brain just to get that
review in and then once we work through
this object's practice
we will move into oop or object oriented
programming
cool so let's go ahead if you haven't
downloaded the materials yet go ahead
please they're always on discord in the
following materials channel this is
class 30 materials can you believe after
this class we'll be halfway through
folks can we just take a second for that
hold on let me just take a second before
we before we start working on this
after tonight we're halfway through
folks could you imagine in the beginning
when you first saw that reddit post that
in just a few weeks you'll be sitting
there going oh yeah leon when we create
an object it's a collection of variables
and functions we can use literal
notation and dot notation to build the
object but now we're looking at
constructors and well the constructor's
got some tactical sugar and now they're
and now and now we got classes what a
bunch of nerds
what a bunch of nerds i love it y'all a
bunch of nerds and i love it
right like could you imagine could you
imagine just a few weeks ago knowing
that you would be able to have that full
conversation
like like that it makes sense
like that those words have meaning to
you
and that you keep showing up and tonight
we're going into things like
encapsulation and abstraction and we're
talking about paradigms of of of coding
like what
come on now
that's huge and after tonight we're
almost halfway through so you know next
week's got to be big we know next week's
got to be big because that next week
we're officially halfway through and so
next week's got to be big this we got to
celebrate but come on now if you're not
proud of yourself i know i've been
saying this a lot recently but if you're
not proud of yourself you're messing up
because it it not everyone can do this
right and so i'm just i just want to
make sure that if nobody tells you i'm
hella proud of you like really proud of
you for showing up committing to this
process digging deep when things don't
make sense
a lot of folks want to do this but they
don't you'll be you're all built
different all are built different
all right
let's go ahead and take a look at this
code
uh we have in the starter code for today
uh this object espresso machine so let's
go ahead and open up this js file i have
the index.html file so we can open it as
well
and i want you to create an espresso
machine actually i don't want to make a
constructor i want you to make a class
sorry this should say class
uh i want you to create an expression
machine class
that makes espresso machines with four
properties and three methods
four properties three methods okay so
let's go ahead we're gonna we we've done
this before we've been down this block a
few times so let's go ahead and put four
minutes on the clock
four minutes on the clock for this one i
know we can get through this one we've
done this quite a few times
use the class based syntax please class
based syntax four minutes on the clock
you got this
but dude we've talked about them in
class they're in the slides too if you
need to take a look at the slides
here's the slide if you need
the first book i showed was the
structure and interpretation of computer
programs
it is the it is the meatiest book
i have probably ever worked through
glad to hear it jacob
tony stark i haven't seen it yet but
i'll i'll take a peek through after
after class
jm just put them here in chat
i don't even want to say the name of the
book again please do not read this book
this book is like not helpful
unless you really want to nerd out and
that's like that's once you have a job
book like once you have a job you can go
back to that book
well so we're going to talk a little bit
about that today actually
nae nae we are just making a class
that has
three prop four properties and three
methods
i'm leaving this slide up so people can
take a peek at the class syntax
misinformed cars hey congrats
happy birthday
first time i can say done hey congrats
if you're having to look at this because
you don't remember
that means to me that you might need to
spend a little bit more time with anki
and this definitely needs to be one of
the things in your anki deck
radio welcome make sure you join you can
do exclamation point 100 devs here in
chat to learn everything uh but if you
join our discord we agree to the rules
and there's this lovely ketchup channel
you can definitely work through all the
material with uh the ketchup crew
spellbatch that i have a hard time
making any slides that mean anything
that's how it starts and then eventually
you find what works and doesn't work you
just kind of got to get into it i've
created a lot of crap cards in my day
but they just get deleted or i remember
them and i don't ever think about them
again
all right folks come on back let's take
a look at this
do you like rock music not really rock
but like ska
five iron frenzy is my favorite band
all right folks come on back come on
back
also listen to a lot of punk
really into idols right now
yeah
never fight a man with a perm
like as i just play that song on repeat
right now
cool all righty folks let's take a look
at this together
pretty sure i hung out with leon in high
school that's that's that's like a nice
compliment
alrighty
let's go ahead and
build out this class so
we're gonna build out our class remember
the class structure is a little bit
different uh so we're gonna call this
espresso machine
and i like to keep my classes with the
capital letter anyway
espresso
there you go espresso machine all right
now inside of our espresso machine we
need our what first
we need our what first
constructor
beautiful so we have our constructor
first and then we're going to have our
methods that come after our constructor
so
what are some properties that our
espresso machine should have
zen kits hey thank you for the hydration
i appreciate it cheers to you
necco cats hey thank you for the tier
three that's wild
i see some models i see brand i see
color
uh size
i see price
i kind of like this let's do
let's do color
make model price
so this dot color
equals color
uh this dot
make equals make
this dot
brand
or model i should say
model equals model and this dot price
equals price
what am i
missing
has grinder nah my espresso machines
never have grinders
there's really no good pros like
prosumer espresso machine with a
built-in grinder in my opinion
yeah i'm gonna see my parameters i need
to put the color the make the model in
here right color
make
model and i need price in here too
beautiful
all right so we got our constructor
color make model uh remember we always
have to keep in mind
let me uh connect my ipad again sorry i
realized that my ipad wasn't connected
after the restart
and i plan to start demo pro too
all right here we go
all right there we go so the thing we
always have to keep in mind right thing
was to keep in mind is that
these right here are what
what are the things i just circled
they're properties exactly these are the
properties however
these over here
are the what
exactly i see some folks coming with it
the parameters right the parameters and
so what you have to realize is that the
parameters are coming in up here and
correlating to these parameters over
here these are just the properties that
are going to be tied to the object that
gets spit out of this constructor that
gets spit out of this class
often they are the same name but they
don't have to be i could have called
this zaboomafoo and then had zabooma
through here and i still would have had
a property of color that then had the
value that got passed in so
the uh the the beautiful thing here is
that we have uh our properties laid out
our properties and our methods there's
one other thing that's that's wrong here
what else is wrong here there's
something something that that's messed
up
yes the parentheses nice
why don't i need parentheses here
why do i need parentheses there
it's not a what
it's not a constructor function it's not
it's not actually a function there so
since it's not a function we don't need
those parentheses and so i think a lot
of folks when they're switching from the
constructor to the class syntax they
always leave it because they're so used
to being a constructor function but it's
different it's a little bit of
syntactical sugar it's a little bit
different
the constructor function is here now
cool
all right
we need some methods what are some
things that our espresso machine should
be able to do
what are what are some things we need
here
we need to turn on we need it to froth
milk we need it to brew
we need to pull a shot we need to
heat
turn on turn off
all right i like turn on we can do turn
on brew
and
or we can make like we can turn on steam
and like brew right
so let's go and do that let's go ahead
and turn on
cool then we can have
uh steam
and then we can have
brew
cool now we have the ability to
to turn on to steam and to brew let's
just put some console logs in here
i'm just gonna say
good day
i am now on
cool steam
[Music]
we're going to say
it's
summer
sale
50 off
all right there we go that's steam
50 off and then brew
we're going to
just have it console log
good stuff
coming
your way all right there we go
so we have an espresso machine that has
a constructor that helps us make uh four
properties on the objects and then we
have uh three lovely methods turn on
steam and
brew
let's go ahead and actually create a
an object here and so let's go ahead and
let me see if i can keep this all on
screen here let's go ahead and create an
object here
so um anybody have a favorite espresso
machine
i'm not shilling for steam
revel
nespresso
that's my favorite we're going to go
with the gaggia there we go
that gaggia equal
and we're going to do a new keyword
espresso machine
and
we have to pass in our values now so
we're going to pass in the color the
make uh the model and the price
i'm thinking the gaja classic pro now
the gaja classic pro is a beautiful
espresso machine they came out with this
like beautiful red color recent well not
recently but beautiful red color
uh the make
is gaja
the
model is the classic
pro
and
this is like this is like the best
entry-level
prosumer
espresso machine
right
like
getting everything like getting good
espresso under 800
is not an easy feat and so when you
throw in the espresso machine the
grinder all that funny stuff uh you wind
up realizing that for the dollar for
dollar the gaja classic pro is probably
one of the best espresso machines on the
market uh barring getting something like
refurbished and using that or making
some modifications to another one
all right now what do we think the price
for
a
a gaja classic pro might be
it's like you're all pretty close
you can you can typically get one in the
range for like four to six hundred
dollars
um if you like go on certain websites
they'll try and sell it to you for eight
hundred but yeah like
four to four to six hundred
uh if you if you know where to look you
can get it for 400 so we'll say 400 for
the price
cool
all right so now we have our lovely
object let's go ahead and save it let's
see if we can open this in the browser
and make sure that it's actually running
open in browser
all right i forgot that it was still to
bring it on one
let's go take a look at the console
let's ask for our guys back we got it
here we go
we got the lovely espresso machine it
has a color red
a make of gaja it has the model of
classic pro it has the price of 400 and
it should have some methods too so let's
go and try using one of the methods
and
i think we had turn on was one of ours
there we go good day i am now on
beautiful
so it looks like we got not only all of
our properties let's see if we can get
one of the properties back let's get the
price
cool looks like we got the price we got
the methods we're doing good
alrighty
we feeling good we got this review in
public private hang around we're gonna
we're gonna talk a little bit about
public private later on today
all right first try
what type of tea this is a tazo vanilla
caramel chai
it's my go-to recently alrighty did this
in the js cardio nice
the jscardio definitely haven't done
that yet the other part of the work that
was assigned really good practice for
all this stuff all right so
we got a review in we're using the
lovely class-based syntax we've built
our espresso machine and we've been
using these objects
and
there was a reason why
i had you
watch that video if you noticed in the
in the
in the the the announcement for today's
class was to watch this video of cardi b
because whenever i'm learning to code
i feel i feel i feel cardy inside me all
right i i feel i feel them just like
bubbling out because i'll read one of
these whole dusty
this is a fun one
i'm not hating on this one this is like
a fun one i'll read this whole book
and i'll be like all right great objects
yeah i know how to use them i can i can
play around them
but what
was the reason like why why should i use
objects why do i need factories why do i
need classes why do i need constructors
what is the reason that i needed all
this stuff
right
and i constantly am learning things and
the whole time every part of my being is
screaming
why
is screaming why
right
and so
tonight
i'm hoping to answer a little bit of
reason as to why we use objects
why we need these things called
encapsulation and abstraction
and why we need these factories and all
this stuff and i hope that after
tonight's class we we walk away with
understanding why that we that we
understand
right
um
the why behind what we're doing and so
if we can walk away tonight
understanding the why
i'm gonna feel really good
so
before we do that
uh before we before we before we before
we jump into the next little bit of what
we're gonna cover this evening uh i want
to take a break let's go and take a
break
uh we're we're almost to the top of the
hour if you're new around here we like
to take breaks to the top of the hour to
be healthy to give our hands and eyes a
little bit of a little bit of a break
i'm gonna put five minutes on the timer
here
please if you're able get up move around
hydrate
all right look out your window longingly
at the light post so that your eyes
focus on something farther away
and we'll be back in five minutes
i'll leave it up here
all right i'm gonna run some ads you
actually have to take a break too
so that new folks can come and not have
to sit through them hi folks see you in
five minutes
when we come back we learn why
go
well
my
this
do
never does difficult she never does
is there a start over crew
that's actually not a bad idea but
definitely join the ketchup crew we have
so many folks joining in the ketchup
crew every day so
you can definitely create like threads
too to stay
with folks
will there be another super review yeah
we'll definitely get another super
review in once we get all the way
through objects async awaiting promises
next week we'll do a review with
everything
basically we'll go deep with javascript
so we won't do like html or css but
we'll go review everything in javascript
before we get into the back end
can you do freelance work as partners
absolutely um but you both need your own
contracts
because you you want to be the beautiful
thing about having your own free like
you can do it but
if you do it by yourself it's a little
bit better because when a hiring partner
or someone asks you like show me what
you've built there's no ambiguity around
it like i built this whole thing for
this client they paid me money
face clan intern hey thank you for the
uh the gift it subs hey's up let's go
get me on the phase clan they need their
first teacher their first educator
is leon
there you go
[Laughter]
don't let the hundred devs fool you
all right folks come on back come on
back let's get into this
let's get into this
i just watched the 12-second video i
feel her yeah that's why i want to be
able to watch it like i i really do like
when i tell you some stuff like of
course sometimes i'm like joking but no
when i read these books the whole time
the whole time i am thinking through
um
like why what is the reason i wish they
would just start by saying here's why
you need this stuff and then go into all
the nitty gritty details but none of
these books do it they're all like it's
almost like
they can't remember being beginners
all right almost like they can't
remember being beginners
which is why i love
that's why i love with every fiber of my
being the stream team
there's nothing i can do
to go back and remember
everything that it was like to be in
that in that moment in time but with the
stream team we can we could have folks
that are in the thick of it in the mud
with you that are explaining things and
seeing things with those eyes i try
really hard but the stream team makes it
so that
there's someone with your same
perspective and you can go through it
together
all right
told you folks are not gonna be able to
help themselves tonight they're not
all ready
let's chill the music here
already so
as our code base gets larger
and more folks join the team
can we keep our code
organized
it's a big question we have to start
asking ourselves we're going to start
doing more
teamwork
by the end of program we're going to be
building large-scale applications with
each other
as part of the agency right we're going
to be building these bigger projects
together
and right now as our code bases get
larger and more folks join the team can
we keep our code organized it's a
question we need to keep in our brains
another question we need to think
through is it easy to add no new
features and functionality the way that
we
the way that our code is organized now
is it easily add new features and
functionality can we can we
can we make it so that new folks can
join easily can we keep it organized
can another developer look at your code
and actually understand what is
happening
and i'm seeing a lot of yeses
but
i feel like it might be a
a no
and i'm going to show you why in a
second
so the things i start to we got to start
thinking about is like we've been
writing code right
and the first rule of writing code the
the the the first rule of writing code
at 100 devs is what
what is the first rule above above
everything i'm about to talk about above
everything about to talk about what is
the first rule
be a baddie exactly be a baddie write
bad code make it work
make it work right make it work that is
the number one rule at 100 devs be a
baddie write bad code make it work right
everything else is extra
but
our end goal
is to be able to work with others
our end goal is to be able to build
bigger and bigger things
and our procedural spaghetti code might
start to hold us back a little bit so
something i need you to think about
tonight and i'm going to show you some
examples but i want you to think through
these questions
as their codebase gets larger the way
that you're writing code right now can
more folks join you will your code stay
organized as they join
is it easy for you to add new features
and functionality
can another developer look at your code
and understand what exactly is happening
just by like looking and reading through
it
and can you make changes without losing
sleep at night like if you and another
developer are working on the same
project can you both make changes and
not be afraid that it breaks something
else
and so i think and we're going to see
some examples that's that's a no right
now and that's okay because the first
rule is be a baddie write bad code make
it work
but what if there was a system
paradigm
a set of rules
or an agreed-upon structure
to our code
that we could follow
that would make it easier for us to add
new things
that would make it easier for us to read
through what we had already written and
and see the code that's already there
and what if we could structure our code
in a way
we could structure our code in a way
where we weren't afraid to make changes
where we could push code at five o'clock
and go home
and not sweat the entire ride back
you know what if there was a system a
paradigm a set of rules notice the
warning on the slide right notice the
warning on the slide whenever you see
this warning you know the next slide's
about to get loud about to get flashy
i'll have these on all the slides before
before we hit it so what if there was a
system
a paradigm a set of rules that made it
easy for us to add new stuff that made
it easier to read what we already
written that made it so we weren't
afraid to make changes well
[Music]
so
i went there i did it
my cat jumped off the chair and ran
[Laughter]
all right so that's that's the whole
point of object oriented programming is
that we're going to start being able to
answer these questions with a system
that enables us to work around them
all right i forgot to forgot to go to
the next slide
hold on
10 seconds
baby baby
[Music]
all right let's see some code
let's see some code
we talked about it but let's see some
code you know what i'm saying
now the juice is going
let's see some code all right
let's take a look at this code here
uh so
i want to
i want to build some
some code to start helping us as we
start thinking about the agency
and so i want to be able to calculate
uh my profit when i work with a client
right i want to i want to i want to work
with my i want to be able to i want to
build something so that i can calculate
the profit of when i work with a client
to get get work done right and so
i'm standing on my keyboard
so here i have uh some variables hourly
rate hours tax rate uh once again
this is a reminder
i'm not a tax professional none of this
is tax advice please don't think this
tax rate is your tax rate getting that
out there
pay your taxes all right so we have our
variables here for hourly rate hours tax
rate we have a function here that we can
use to calculate profit
and we can see that i here am
creating a variable called profit
i am calculating my profit
i am passing in the hourly rate
the hours and the tax rate the hourly
rate falls into rate the hours falls
into number of hours the tax rate falls
into taxes you see you have a simple
formula here for calculating uh the rate
times the number of hours times the rate
of taxes
right
and this works
this works and this look this might
be some code that we would really write
right this looks like something that we
would we would feel comfortable writing
to calculate um the profit that we make
when working with a client
now the question i have
is it easy to add new features or
functionality
uh with the way the code is written now
let's take a look
here i added just one other bit of
functionality
right i just added one other bit of
uh which is like how much do we need to
to
hold on to for taxes so let's see if we
can follow this through right we have
our hourly rate our hours our tax rate
we have the ability to calculate our
profit we have the ability to calculate
our taxes held and so for this to work
we need to calculate our profit first
and then once we have our profit we can
calculate our are held for taxes
right and so here we're passing in the
hourly rate of 250. oh [__] now my now
my clients know my hourly rate um
my number of hours
and my tax rate
those get passed in right
those get passed in
and then i calculate my my profit that
gets spit back out it's stored in profit
then i'm able to use profit as a
parameter that gets passed in i can then
use the profit to calculate how much i
need to hold for taxes and i have that
spit out
now all of this
works
this is all some very procedural code
that we're used to probably writing
now the problem is
can another developer look at my code
and understand what is happening let's
take a look
can you as another developer figure out
what's happening here
what are some what are some problems
what are some problems that you might
run into
when you're looking at this code
what are some what are some things that
you're thinking about
when you're looking at this code
sure but there's too much to analyze
exactly
there's too much to analyze
our
parameter names are all over the place
our variable names are all over the
place right
and just adding one line of
functionality
kind of made this harder to understand
right we could we agree that just adding
this one line it's not we're not
breaking the bank right here we're not
breaking the bank right here but just
adding that one line
right
just adding that one line is already
probably causing us a lot of problems
and we want to build out a full
application that we can use to help
manage our agency so could you imagine
adding 50 to 100 other things that we
need to keep track of in this procedural
manner
i don't know
and and and could you make changes and
sleep at night like could you could you
make a change to this
could you make a change to this and feel
comfortable pushing your code
like if we're working on a team could
you change any of this could you would
you feel comfortable
changing hourly rate
would you feel comfortable changing
taxes
no way
and imagine this is just what this is
what this is what two bits of
functionality two two this is two bits
of functionality and we're already like
leon i don't know
i don't know i
i can't do this right i can't do this
right this with two bits of
functionality and so if we're building
out full applications the way that we've
been writing code just
won't
work
it makes sense
this works
it makes sense we could sit here we
could we could get up into it
okay this this we could we could we
could go full steve madden right we can
go full steve madden we can bring out
the nuns right we could we we could
figure it out
we could figure it out
right we could figure it out
but
what if there was something we could do
what if there was something that we
could do
that would make it so we could get rid
of
all this mess
this is just mess to me it works we can
read it it's procedural we can go from
top to bottom we can understand it
but what if there was a way that we
could make it so that we could solve
those questions easier to work with
others make changes without losing sleep
at night and one of the first things we
realize is that if we look at this code
and we really think about it there's two
things
right there's two things that i'm
noticing about this code
there's data
like our hourly rate
our hours worked our tax rate
and then there was
functionality like calculating the
profit
and the tax is held right so when i look
at this code i'm really seeing those two
things i'm seeing data
and i am seeing
functionality
and so
what if there was a way
that we could
fuse
this data and functionality together
right we could pull it out right we
could pull it out
pull it out
right we can pull it out if you know you
know right
we could pull it out what if we could
fuse
our data and functionality together
so that it makes a little bit more sense
right but it makes a little bit more
sense a little bit easier to keep track
of what's going on
so here is my serious business person
object
here's my serious business person object
let's take a look at this
right
here
we have our hourly rate
we have our hours worked we have our tax
rate
and then we have our calculate profit
right we have our calculate profit now
look at calculate profit
what's calculate profit doing that was
different than that messy code we were
looking at not too long ago
one it's a lot easier to read i agree
with that
uh
the parameters aren't all over the place
right the parameters all over the place
we are using
the hourly rate hours and tax rate that
are that are tied to the object and
we're not using a class right now
because it's just too much to fit on one
page right but we would build a class
with a constructor that would do this
right but for now just so we can get the
idea
now we don't have this mess
that's everywhere
right it's a method now it's way more
readable we can see the hourly rate the
hours the tax rate and it's not changing
throughout our code
we can go and see all right i want to
calculate the profit i can go and see
where calculate profit is is made and i
can see that it's oh it's referencing
this hourly rate this hours this tax
rate i know what those things are
right i know what those things are i can
look oh
this that hourly rate
this that hours this that tax rate when
i see this
i know exactly where to go
right like i don't i don't have to i
don't have to go anywhere else
inside of my code
right i don't have to go anywhere else
inside of my code when i see this i know
it's referring to the property on that
object
right i know it's referring to the
property on that object so if another
teammate where if we're working on code
together and another teammate adds some
property up here called hours right they
come up here and they they create an
hours up here
do i lose any sleep
no
because i'm i am not i'm not worried
about am i going to accidentally use
that as a parameter am i going to
accidentally use it as a variable this
hours up here means nothing to me
because i can see that this hours is
tied to the object it's this thought
hours
right so now i have my data
and my functionality
fused
together
and it makes the code
way
more readable
it makes it so that when i want to
add new features or functionality
right when i want to add new features or
functionality it's not wild right i
added the calculate taxes held and now
i'm still using the hourly rate i'm
still using the hours i'm still using
the this dot calculate profit
when i say this dot calculate profit am
i talking about some other function 400
lines down called calculate profit
no
right
i know that this calculate profit
because i see that this keyword is
talking about this method right
here right it's talking about that
specific method so it's
my my
my data and my functionality is fused
together it makes it way easier i can
now add more bits of functionality
and it's readable i'm not chasing stuff
down throughout my entire my entire
folder structure it makes it so that i
can also do something really really
important
i can understand what the heck is going
on in my code
right i can understand what's going on i
can see that this is an hourly rate this
is hours i can see that this is
calculating profit i can quickly read
this and understand what's happening
but the other thing is
i can make changes now without losing
sleep
i can change my tax rate
and do i worry that anything else is
broken
do i have to worry about some other
function somewhere else breaking do i
have to worry about that big mess of
chains that we had before
no we know that everything
is using
the the actual properties so we know
that this dot tax rate is looking right
at this line and we know all the other
methods that we built right
all the other methods that we built
they're all using the same data
so now we can add new bits of
functionality
we can make changes and not lose sleep
at night because we're all kind of
agreeing to this this system this
paradigm
right
and so when we
fuse
our data
and functionality into one object
when we fuse this data and functionality
into one object
you have your warning
encapsulation baby
[Music]
the nerds are in shambles
that's encapsulation
all right i keep forgetting the other
slide we got to have that i keep
forgetting while it's out to do the
other slide
all right so
here's the here's here's my definition
of encapsulation and as you'll notice
i've put my warning here if you're if
you're a code weenie when you see this
asterisk this is your turn to close your
eyes and take your headphones out i'm
going to give you a warning to close
your eyes take your headphones out if if
definitions that are meant to help
people understand if that's going to
make you shake violently you can't help
yourself i already see you typing it
there's somebody right now that has like
a full paragraph typed out about how
this isn't
absolutely 100 encapsulation right you
can just delete it it's okay
come back in a few minutes we'll be past
this okay all right
so
to me encapsulation what helped me kind
of understand is this just the process
of storing our functions or methods
with their associated data akr
properties into one thing the fusing of
that data the fusing of those of that
functionality into one thing that's
encapsulation the process of storing our
functions with their associated data
into one thing
cool
so
the the thing we always have to come
back to
the thing that we that we always have to
come back to is is is the why
right is the why what does encapsulation
help us do
why is why do people say encapsulation
is important it's one of the four
pillars of object-oriented programming
this paradigm that makes us writing code
together a little bit more easier why do
why is this encapsulation important what
does it help us do what is the reason
what is the the reason
what is the reason
i love that people haven't watched the
gif and they just have no idea they
think i'm just getting real hype off of
this
yeah
a little bit a little bit more specific
though it does help with organization
right but it makes it so
that we can do a couple things one
we can
make our code more readable
two it makes sure that we can make
changes and not lose sleep and it gets
rid of this mess of spaghetti code
because our data and our functionality
is fused into one thing
cool
now i have a new question
we talked about this we talked very
briefly about this idea is it easier to
add new features and functionality
if we're using encapsulation that's one
step
towards making it easier to add
functions and features and functionality
but there are some other things that we
can do that continue down this pathway
of making it easier to add new features
and functionality so
i'm going to ask for a little bit of
creative freedom a little bit of liberty
when we describe this next thing as i
have done before but i'm hoping that
this little bit of encapsulation starts
to make sense because i can't tell you
how many books i read how many youtube
videos i watched i'm like
why why would i use encapsulation why
does using objects help so i hope that
that example helped if it didn't don't
worry we're gonna see this two three
more times over the next few classes
with more examples come to office hours
ask your questions but i want to lean
into this idea is it easy to add new
features and functionality so to do that
let's let's talk about something let's
let's talk about
our espresso machine
earlier today we talked about the gaja
classic pro here it is in all of its
glory
now the garage classic pro really is
hands down
the best
prosumer entry-level espresso machine
it's expensive yes but anything less is
is not gonna cut it
right if you want good espresso with
good pores consistently good pores the
gaja classic pro builds up a really good
steam it really presses that steam to
the portafilter you get really good
espresso
and the gadget classic pro was really
good at it it was really good
not a sponsored stream because i'm about
to wreck them about the reckon the
gauges the gaja classic pro
was hands down like one of the best
espresso machines for that that category
but it was missing something
it was missing this lovely steam wand
right it was missing this lovely steam
wand and so they added a steam wand to
the gaja classic pro
but it
sucks
it's horrible it is hot
garbage so if you're not if you're not
in the know
uh you use the steam wand to add texture
to your milk
right you add texture to your milk give
you that elasticity
so that you can do cool stuff with it
you can make your lattes you can do what
you want to do right
and uh the steam one that they added to
the gaja classic pro
not good
all right
now something interesting
is that the gaggia classic pro
is really good at one thing right it
really does make
really
good boiled water right the gadget
classic pro is really good at heating
water the water it heats for the
espresso makes some of the best espresso
you can make in the entry level market
however that same boiled water that you
would use to steam your milk through
that wand
well it sucks
right the goja classic pro is an
espresso machine at its core it boils
water and then it takes that hot water
it puts it through a portafilter and
that's how you get your espresso and it
sends some of that water or that steam
to the steam wand and that's how you can
froth your milk
but the wand sucks
so
if we are all astute engineers that we
are
what should the engineers at gaggia do
what should they do uh to this this
lovely espresso machine
quick they should update
the wand
please guys if you're listening please
listen to us here here are here our our
our plea
get rid of the crappy two-hole filter
give us a single hole that gives us more
control please just fix it
all right
so the engineers could probably just
make a better one right they can make a
better steam wand uh should they get rid
of the boiler
right we want this better espresso
machine everything is perfect except for
the steam wand should they
get rid of the water boiler
no
should they get rid of the buttons on
the front
no should they redesign the portafilter
no
they probably shouldn't they should
probably
right
probably just fix the wand and so if
they're going to fix the wand
do the engineers at gaza even need to
think about the water boiler
do they even need to think about the
buttons that are on the front of the
machine or can they just focus on
something
right the engineers can just focus
on the
wand right they don't need to think
about the water boiler they don't need
to think about the buttons on the front
they can just focus on the wand
so we can say in this instance
that the water boiling
it's abstracted
oh boy
the engineers at gaja
right
they need to fix the steam one fix the
wand please fix the wand
it's almost perfect just fix the wand
and when they're fixing the wand they
don't have to worry about the water
boiler the water boiler is perfect
it makes some of the best espresso in
the entry level market
and when the engineers show up for work
they don't need to worry about the water
boiler they can just focus on
the wand so in this instance the water
boiling
is abstracted
all right let's look at some code
all right
so
i've been working really hard
on building a lot of tools and systems
for the agency
and so here is a calculator i built
right i built this at this lovely
calculator um that can help generate
invoices for our clients
and i accidentally put this calculator
uh on our agency website
right
i actually put it on the agency website
and
at first this could be fine but there's
there's some things that uh we might not
want on our agency website if we look at
this
calculator
um you can see that i have entered in an
hourly rate
the hours worked and our tax rate my tax
rate
and then
i have these lovely calculate profit
methods this invoice client method
and our client can come to the website
and they can generate their invoice they
can just say invoice client and they
would get the invoice
but they could also do two other things
that i don't want them to do
what's the first rule of freelancing
what's the what's the magic question
what's the magic question
what's your ball park budget
what's your ballpark budget i don't want
my clients to ever know my hourly rate i
have the hourly rate in my brain i know
what i'm shooting for i'm shooting for
250 an hour
right but i don't need them to know that
i don't want them to know that but the
way that my code is written right now on
the agency website
not only can they get their invoice
but at their little you know they're in
there you know they're they're moving
around they're testing some things maybe
they know a little bit a bit
they can also get the hourly rate uh-oh
and they can figure out how much money
i'm going to make off of them
i don't want them to know how much money
i'm going to make off of them i want
them to feel like i'm i'm please sir i
have some more right i don't want to
know how much money that i'm making off
of this
right
but right now as it stands
if they're using this calculator
not only can they get their invoice
but
they can get the hourly rate
and the profit
interesting
so let's look at this
this is better
i made some some very small changes here
i made some very small changes here
if we look now i set up the calculator
the client will never see me set it up
now when they ask for their invoice they
still get their invoice they still get
the 40 000
but if they try to access the hourly
rate they get undefined and they try to
access calculate profit they get it's
not a function let's take a look let's
take a look at the old code
the old code they were able to get the
hourly rate
and the profit but this code they can't
in this code i have some private
variables
and some private methods and once again
you'll notice the lovely sign here for
the nerds that can't control themselves
they're they're they're absolutely
shaking right i'm using the word private
liberally here we'll get to the real
definitions later on but right now
those things are undefined and they
can't be found because look look look
can you spot the difference
this turns them from being bound to the
object
into local
variables
i went from this
to let
from this to let now these are
local
variables
when i go ahead and i set up my
calculator
i plugged in
my
hourly rate
i plugged in
my hours
i plugged in my tax rate and i was able
to set
those values i was able to set
the hours
i was able to set the tax rate and i was
able to set the hourly rate however
the object that comes out of this
constructor
does not have an hourly rate does not
have an hourly rate property
so when i try to use the property down
here it's undefined i did not set it up
to have that property it is a local
variable
and the beautiful thing about this is i
can use that local variable inside but
it is not accessible to folks that are
using the object
right so now i get the benefit of
passing in my hourly rate
i can actually use
my hourly rate inside my calculating
profit
and i can use
uh my rate
right i can use my rate inside of my
invoicing the client this would actually
have to be a variable sorry
so well sorry the whole thing is it just
looks like a string here but the whole
thing is a variable with a template
string right so i'm able to use the rate
inside of my calculate profit and i'm
able to
i'm able to use the rate inside of my
invoice client but that rate
right
that rate
is not
available
right that rate is not available
to the user that has the object
so i'm able to use it but it's not on
the object itself
okay
now we can see right away
why
this could be really helpful
right right away this could be really
really helpful because now the
calculator that's on our website
we can still generate invoices we can
still use numbers that we want ourselves
but our clients can't see our hourly
rate they can't see our calculated
profit
right all was that simple change
now the question is
so my client can now see their invoice
they cannot see the hourly rate
the thing we have to start thinking
about is like what is this building up
to what am i trying to get to here
the hourly rate was hidden from the
client
but we were still able to use it
the water boiling was hidden from the
steam wand we were still able to use it
right like the water boiled and created
steam
and the wand was able to use that steam
just like the portafilter was able to
use the steam too like the hole where
the water goes through the coffee the
coffee was able to use the steam to
generate espresso
it was also able to use that steam to to
push it through the steam wand right so
the water boiling was using that steam
in two areas it was using it for making
the espresso and it was using it for the
wand now the wand did not care
or you didn't even have to think about
the water boiling or how that steam was
created right the wand just uses it the
wand says give me steam the water
boiling does its thing gives the steam
just like our client our client can now
get their invoice they don't need to see
the hourly rate they don't need to see
our calculated profit it's all there
it's all still working but they only get
the invoice
right
we're starting to
hide
any of the complex
or unnecessary details
the wand does not need to know how the
steam was generated
the client does not need to know our
hourly rate to get their invoice
right these complex or unnecessary
details are being hidden
the really beautiful thing about this is
this slowly enables us to implement
things without understanding or even
thinking about all of that hidden
complexity
if we were all engineers at gaggia and
we were all engineers there and we were
tasked with working on the wand
do we need to know how the water boiler
works
do we need to know how
the buttons on the front of the machine
work
do we need to know the the exact size of
the portafilter no
all those details are important but they
are
they're abstracted away from us right we
can just focus on our task
our job at the moment which is to fix
that wand
right
we don't have to worry about the water
boiling not to worry about the buttons
we can focus on the wand
if we come and we want to work on this
calculator
we can focus on
calculating the tax withheld and not
worrying about the profit
right we can just focus on the things
that we need to get done
we're breaking our
projects our applications into smaller
more manageable pieces of code
all right we don't have to worry about
the huge system
we can focus
on just the pieces that we need to work
on
and we can do stuff
once that's huge we're breaking down our
our applications into smaller more
manual pieces of code but it also
enables us to do stuff once
i am using the steam to make the
espresso
and i am using the steam to froth my
milk did i have to create the
water boiler twice
no
i created one water boiler and then i am
able to use it to make the espresso i'm
able to use it to make my steam do the
engineers working on the wand need to
even know
how the steam is being made by the water
boiler
no they just say give me steam and they
can use it
this process of
moving
and hiding some more of the complex the
difficult pieces
making our programs into more manageable
bits of code making it so we can do
stuff once
[Music]
all right
[Laughter]
abstraction is all about
hiding the details
and just showing what is essential
abstraction is all about hiding the
details
and showing what is essential
right
by doing this we can make our code more
simple more predictable
more
manageable right more simple predictable
more manageable
by using this abstraction
right and so
we saw abstraction in play
with the engineers working on the
espresso machine
they only had to make the water boiler
once and then any part of the espresso
machine that needs the steam now has
access to it when the engineers are
working on that espresso machine they
can just focus on the wand and not have
to worry about the water boiler when
they are looking at the
the espresso machine like the the part
that makes the espresso they don't have
to worry about the water boiler
right when we're building our agency
calculator we don't have to worry about
what's happening in calculate profit if
we're working on working on building out
how to calculate the taxes we can start
to see how this makes our code
more manageable
when a new engineer comes
right when a new engineer comes
we don't have to worry about reinventing
the wheel we've already done it we can
just use the bits that we need
and move on with our lives
now this is like these are meaty topics
right these are hard topics
right and the first pass it's hard to
kind of wrap our brains around them so
i'm trying to give you some examples
right i'm trying to get the brain the
gears going we're gonna see this stuff
over and over again we got like three or
four classes including office hours
we're going to bring this stuff up so
i hope the gears are starting to turn a
little bit we saw we saw some of the
four pillars the four pillars are
encapsulation and abstraction we also
have inheritance and the weird one
polymorphism coming up
right
but we're starting to to rely on these
four pillars to bring some more
manageability to our code
now
encapsulation we said
was the process of storing functions
and their associated data into one thing
that fusion
of functions and properties together
into one
object right that fusion we said that's
what encapsulation was
but why
why the heck do we need encapsulation
why is this process of storing functions
and their associated data into one thing
a thing why what is the reason why does
this matter
right why does this matter
well
when we utilize encapsulation
when we fused our
data and functionality together into one
object it made it easier to add new
stuff
we we didn't have to worry about all
those messy parameters we didn't have to
know what was being passed to what we
were just it was way cleaner was way
easier to add new stuff
it made it way easier to read through
our code right we're not looking at all
these random made up stuff
imagine if a bunch of people are adding
bits of functionality they would have
all came up with their own parameter
name they would have all came out with
their own conventions but now that it's
part of the object we can just use those
object properties so that makes it more
readable in the long run
and it made it so we were not afraid to
make changes
if all the bits of functionality are
using the properties that are tied to
the object and we're always referencing
the same things no matter if we're
calculating profit or tax or whatever
we're using those same bits of data so
we can make changes we can change the
hourly rate from 250 to 300 and not
lose sweep sleep
sleep that is the beauty of
encapsulation that's why we use it makes
it easier to add new stuff makes it
easier to read our code makes it so
we're not afraid to make
changes
that makes sense
do you understand why you understand
what is the reason
do you does that make sense
yeah
yeah all right
because i can't tell you how many books
i read
i can't tell you how many videos i
watched in the end i didn't understand
what it was i probably used
encapsulation professionally for years
before i really understood like deeply
what it was doing
cool
we also have abstraction
in extraction we are hiding the details
and just showing what is essential
showing what is essential
but why
what is the reason
why do we need this abstraction
why is it important to hide details and
show the essentials like what is the
reason
well it enables us to make smaller more
manageable pieces of code
our engineers can just work on one piece
at a time and not worry about all the
other pieces we saw with encapsulation
right with encapsulation it's easy to
reuse the properties across the bits of
functionality that's why encapsulation
and abstraction are so closely tied it's
really hard to have one without the
other because when we have the
encapsulation right when we are making
it more readable when we're reusing our
properties inside of our functionality
when we fused our data and functionality
together we know that when we go and add
a new bit of functionality we don't have
to worry about how the other bit of
functionality was working right i don't
care what was happening in that
calculate profit method i don't have to
know
that makes our code way more manageable
over time we're just worried about small
pieces of code and we know that we're
not going to break anything that's out
there throughout the rest of our code
base
so
it helps us to split the complexity of
the things that we want to build into
more manageable parts the engineers
working on the wand don't have to worry
about the water boiling
all right
next class
we have inheritance and polymorphism i'm
going to give you some videos and some
reading to watch
that walk through those really important
things
when we come back from our break we're
going to take a break and when we come
back from our break
we are going to just quickly review
encapsulation and polymorph sorry
encapsulation and abstraction
and then uh we are going to talk about
the homework the stuff we gotta get done
this weekend and then we're gonna move
into working together so don't disappear
with five minutes on the clock we get a
little bit more reviewing a little bit
more explanations i'm gonna answer some
questions we're gonna talk about the
weekend we're gonna talk about tomorrow
and then we're gonna get into working
together
as teammates all right five minutes on
the clock if you're new here we like to
take breaks we like to hydrate if you're
able please get up move around hydrate
let your eyes focus on something in a
distance five minutes on the clock you
got this i'm gonna run some ads so that
folks uh
don't have to sit through them when they
come here if you haven't checked in
please check in if you're here please
just give the like and retweet on the um
on the tweet please
all right run the ads seeing five folks
so
uh they they're the ads ran yeah yeah
they ran papa john's loves running ads
on this stream i don't know why but they
always do
now group's not happening after class
we're gonna have some time during class
to work on the groups
family they all are recorded they get
put they're on twitch immediately and
then on youtube a little bit after
they'll be on here for twitch
immediately after class
grab these links real quick
all right god
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right hope you had a good break
let's go ahead let's review
encapsulation let's review abstraction
real quick and then we are going to set
up the project and we are going to move
into the project
alrighty
you ever know who won the project night
yes i keep forgetting to announce it
maybe maybe we'll make that uh
something we'll announce tomorrow
during our
uh career like our story mapping class
yeah crafting your story
i keep pushing it so yeah we'll do that
tomorrow that'll be an incentive to show
up another answer to the show tomorrow
we'll announce the project winners then
alrighty
um we also have to do some pokemon cards
too we'll do those i'm gonna i'm just
gonna start doing the pokemon cards on
sunday because we just have more time
then yeah
all right encapsulation the process of
storing functions with their associated
data into one thing right taking our
data and our functionality putting it
into one object beautiful we gotta you
gotta do the full though you gotta do
the full
i do the full right
but why why do we care about tying this
the fusion of our data and functionality
together well it makes it easier to add
new stuff we don't have this
big mess of procedural code right this
big mess of procedural code where
there's global variables here and
functions over there they all have
different parameters they're all using
different stuff just hard to
read can we do it yes can we make it
work yes but there's a better way when
you use encapsulation
i made it easier to read through that
code right like we're using the same
parameters over and over again we're
using the same values and it makes that
we're not afraid to use changes since we
are reusing those values since they are
all tied together you know how your
changes are going to affect the other
pieces of your code
abstraction right it's the idea of
hiding details and showing the
essentials but why why do we need
abstraction well when the individual is
working on
the steam wand they don't care how the
boiler works they just want steam give
me steam is what their the engineers are
yelling out they don't need to redesign
a water boiler to use the steam in the
wand right they got a lot of things to
fix in the one they got to change it
from the two hole to the one hole to
give it more control
right
so the idea is that
the beauty of the
steam wand the engineer working on the
steam wand they don't have to redo the
water boiling they can just use steam
right the the boiling is abstracted away
from them uh when a client is on our
website they can just get their invoice
they don't need to see the hourly rate
the hourly weight is abstracted away
from them so it enables us to have
smaller more magical bits of code the
complexity we can be hidden not only for
our clients but for our fellow engineers
not to worry about those things to not
lose sleep at night that's why that
encapsulation and that abstraction kind
of meld together to be really helpful
all right
that's two of the big four and i'm going
to come with more examples next class so
i'm going to have more examples on
encapsulation more examples of
abstraction next class then we're going
to hit at the other two big pillars of
oop or object oriented programming and
that's inheritance and polymorphism so
that's next class those are doozies but
once again we're going to start with why
we're starting with y right then we'll
get into using it and seeing like actual
code using it tonight's about y next
class is about y then we'll have the
rest of the classes to build and
actually see real code examples and how
they come together
those are big words they are big words
and when i first learned them i taught
them
you know i was like that's a lot of
disrespect being thrown around
all right
the using doesn't usually come before
understanding it does that's why we've
been using objects we've been doing
these bits of encapsulation we've been
using encapsulation we've used a little
bit of abstraction in class too and so
next class we'll start to see those
examples come to life
all right group work that's not the
right remote i don't this this remo is
wrong don't go to this one this one's
wrong
so tonight we are going to work on a
project
uh this project is a rite of passage for
all new uh new software engineers and
it's to build a tic tac toe game
so tic tac toe can be done procedurally
it can be a
a um
it can be a thank you for the engagement
uh it can be a
it can be a
really messy hot messy code base right
you could do global variables everywhere
functions everywhere right
but what i want you to do tonight is to
get into a group
and i want you to get it to work
get tic tac toe to work
right get tic tac toe to work and then
make it easier to add new stuff
make it easier to read through what was
already coded make it so that you're not
afraid to make changes so if you want to
make a uh be a baddie and write bad code
and get your functions and your your
variables flying and getting tic tac
total work that's the start but then
when i'm telling you to add when i'm
telling you to make it easier to add new
stuff what i'm saying to make it easy to
read through what was already coded when
i was saying to make it so that you're
not afraid to make changes what am i
asking you to use
what am i asking you to use
i'm asking you to use oop
i'm asking to use the encapsulation to
use the abstraction that we learned
tonight go back to the slides look at my
examples what did i change how could you
change your tic-tac-toe to utilize those
examples as well we got some homework
that includes some video watching some
reading to do and there's some push
reading if you want to push remember
push reading is for folks that want to
push it's not required if you want to
push you can do that reading i'm also
expecting you to keep up with your code
wars to keep up with your anki
and if you're going to work with us
tonight which i hope you do come
struggle join the struggle bus together
work with some other individuals join a
table get lost in the sauce together be
kind to each other know that we're all
here to learn don't let your inner code
weenie come out leave your code weenie
at the door help others that are in your
group work collaboratively together and
get something working and then try how
can we revisit this add encapsulation
add abstraction to our code so if you
would like to join a group i've opened
up three remos
you can join any one of these three
remos
there's also the link in in
discord is there as well
you can join one of these tables
you can you can work with others can i
just watch
sure you could join a table tell folks
hey i'm new
i'm not as comfortable with this
material i would love to interject if i
can and be helpful but do you mind if i
be a fly on the wall that's fine start
like that right you're you're among
friends
if we're if your goal is to get a job
you're going to be working with other
engineers come practice it tonight i
don't care if you're silent on remote
that's fine do what's comfortable for
you right do what's comfortable for you
and if for some reason remo doesn't work
we got plenty of voice channels on
discord we got plenty of voice channels
on discord join your study community
discord join voice channels on discord
so i would prefer if you're on remote
but for some folks it doesn't that
doesn't work so there is discord
all right
don't run away
come actually work on these projects
together we got to start working on
projects together we got to start
working with other engineers i know
stream's going to be over and and some
of you are going to try and disappear
don't disappear come work with your
fellow 100 devs make some friends get to
know some other engineers get
comfortable working with others find
your comfort level and get in there
start slinging some
code
alrighty folks
ronan send me a name i need a name
if people are being toxic just send me
names i need them that's not the
community as a whole but every once in a
while there's a code weenie that just
can't help themselves that's what mod
mail's for all right folks be kind
be baddies write bad code and then
figure out how you can apply oop to it
we're not doing a raid we're jumping
right into remo so you can jump into any
of these remotes
there's three of them there
jump in i'll see you over there i'm
gonna be bouncing through them saying hi
stopping at different tables
and have a wonderful rest of your day i
will see you tomorrow on discord for
crafting your story
live all right folks we got about an
hour left in class let's get on these
remotes let's work together let's build
tic-tac-toe all right folks see you
there in a few seconds no raid just
going to see you on remo peace everyone